-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256

# Trezor Canary

## Statements

The Trezor core developers who have digitally signed this file [1]
state the following:

1. The date of issue of this canary is February 2nd, 2023.

2. The Trezor Project has never:

   a) turned over the bootloader/firmware private signing keys to anyone

   b) introduced any backdoors to their software and/or hardware

3. We plan to publish the next of these canary statements in the first
two weeks of May 2023. Special note should be taken if no new canary
is published by that time or if the list of statements changes without
plausible explanation.

## Disclaimers and notes

We would like to remind you that Trezor has been designed under the
assumption that all relevant infrastructure is permanently
compromised.  This means that we assume NO trust in any of the servers
or services which host or provide any Trezor-related data, in
particular, software updates, source code repositories, and other
downloads.

This canary scheme is not infallible. Although signing the declaration
makes it very difficult for a third party to produce arbitrary
declarations, it does not prevent them from using force or other
means, like blackmail or compromising the signers' laptops, to coerce
us to produce false declarations.

The news feeds quoted below (Proof of freshness) serves to demonstrate
that this canary could not have been created prior to the date stated.
It shows that a series of canaries was not created in advance.

This declaration is merely a best effort and is provided without any
guarantee or warranty. It is not legally binding in any way to
anybody. None of the signers should be ever held legally responsible
for any of the statements made here.

## Proof of freshness

Block at depth 774730 (2023-02-02 13:04 UTC) in the Bitcoin blockchain:

0000000000000000000342d4cda6b60bb2f271a11d49e6239641c7cd99f1bb94

## Footnotes

[1] This file should be signed via attached PGP signatures below.

[2] Don't just trust the contents of this file blindly! Verify the
digital signatures!
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=ldI7
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
